[Music]
hey gang it's time to play wrong
or right how does face id work
face id scans 30 000 points on your face
using sensors
cameras and dot projectors it creates a
3d scan of your face that can be used to
unlock your phone
and verify payments all this data is
securely encrypted and stored on your
phone
how does my phone track my steps um
someone follows you and counts
nope using high-tech sensors your phone
considers its movement to calculate your
average walking speed
and how many calories you've burnt many
step apps use satellite signals to
calculate the distance you've moved
how is sleep tracking possible um
you sleepwalk in your track shoes uh uh
sleep tracking uses your phone sensors
to see how much you move around at night
this data helps to find your sleep
phases and if you're getting enough
healthy sleep
to get the most precise results keep
your phone in your bed
how does my phone know someone is typing
um there are spies yet
the blinking ellipsis used to show a
person was online
today it turns on when someone types a
single character
when you send a message it doesn't go
through a cellular network but through
servers which tell you when there's new
activity on the other end of the
conversation
how do airpods work um they have a
hamster running on a wheel inside
not even close air pods are completely
wireless
and each has its own built-in bluetooth
radio you can pair them with any
bluetooth equipped device
like a computer or apple tv they have
sensors
so they only work when you put them in
your ears and automatically pause once
they're out
who knows my phone's precise location
your mother does so does mine
some companies give location data to the
government and advertisers can buy it
for marketing purposes
often you yourself let others use this
data when you install certain apps
even a free weather app can be to blame
if you don't pay for it
it has to make money somehow right
how does auto correction work uh well
auto stands over your shoulder and
checks your work
no when you start typing on your phone
it's consulting the keyboard dictionary
in the background to guess what you're
really trying to say
if you type mulc it'll most likely
change it to milk
because they're just one letter away if
you don't like your phone thinking for
you
you can turn off auto correction
how does predictive text know what i
want to say
uh it uses a crystal ball nope
the suggestions for words and even
phrases you can see on the bottom of the
screen while typing
are based on your previous conversations
your phone also analyzes your writing
style
and even search history to help you type
quicker if you want to go even faster
you can set up customized text
replacement and type just
two letters instead of a whole phrase
why does my phone overheat it wears wool
sweaters in the summer
no if your phone is warm no worries it
doesn't have a fan to cool it down
and sometimes the heat stays within the
metal frame if it gets too
boiling to hold though it's often a sign
that something is wrong with your
battery or hardware
[Music]
how does airdrop work you toss your
phone off a skyscraper
no airdrop builds a wi-fi network
between two devices
by using bluetooth technology both
gadgets encrypt files and send them
through a firewall
so it's more secure than sharing things
via email
and often a lot faster too
how can true black help save battery oh
it's way better than fake black
if you have a newer phone with an amoled
or oled
screen you can save battery by using a
black wallpaper
this technology generates its own light
and doesn't need backlighting unlike
older screens
so it won't waste battery lighting up
black images on the screen
why does my phone run out of battery so
fast in the cold
well it's like running out of milk only
colder
nope charging is all about chemical
reactions
your phone battery is packed with ions
that keep traveling from one pole to
another
cold weather stops or slows down the
current and the battery thinks it's
empty when in fact it's still
full why do i have terrible reception in
supermarkets
well it's not a great venue to receive
your wedding guests
no many supermarkets are warehouses made
of steel and concrete
with refrigerated areas that have even
more metal
even a strong signal can't pass all
these obstacles
the only way the signal from a nearby
cell tower can get in
is through open doors why does my phone
refuse to work in crowds
um it prefers to go it alone no
when all the phones at concerts games
and big festivals parades and even rush
hour traffic
are trying to send and receive signals
from nearby cell towers at the same time
well they overload the network
why do phones have several cameras these
days
they like collecting them no
phone cameras work much like your eyes
they get images from several cameras and
put them together to create one high
quality
3d model or a stereo image just one
camera wouldn't let you take pictures in
portrait mode
and zoom in at the same time
[Music]
is a 48 megapixel phone camera really
four times better than a 12 megapixel
one
you betcha no in fact
it's not just about how many megapixels
your phone has
it's about a good lens and a high
quality sensor that can work with all
those pixels
so a 12 mp camera can take pictures
that put a 48 mp1 to shame
[Music]
why can't you remove your phone battery
anymore
it has a lifetime appointment and can't
be removed without cause
no first removable batteries made phones
more bulky and less stylish
second built-in batteries are smaller
and leave more room for extra features
they also let manufacturers play with
shape and spice up rectangular phones
finally a sealed phone means a
waterproof one
is your phone really listening in yup
just like your gossipy neighbor no
by default it can the onboard microphone
is recording voice data for advertisers
to
accidentally offer you that dress you
were just talking about
if you don't like that happening try
deactivating hey siri or turn off google
assistant
make sure the mic is off for apps like
facebook too
[Music]
how do ads travel from your phone to
your desktop
um they're in cahoots no
advertisers want you to think it's fate
that makes you see their product on both
your phone and a totally unrelated
laptop
they hire special companies to match
your gadgets by your ip address
browser and other details no worries
though they don't care about your name
or other personal data
they just link the devices
why don't phones have home buttons
anymore
they'd rather have a home zipper no
the call back and menu buttons were
removed first
opening up space for larger screens
without those buttons
phones became smoother and seamless the
physical home button was replaced by a
touch sensitive alternative
or even gesture navigation this also
made the phone more durable
can other gadgets eat up my phone wi-fi
why yes
your garbage disposal is especially good
at that
no actually microwave ovens wireless
doorbells
and even hairdryers or sewing machines
can often get between your phone and the
wi-fi signal
they use a frequency similar to your
routers newer wi-fi gadgets let you
choose between frequencies
so opt for five gigahertz bands if you
can
does the hand i'm holding my phone in
matter
well actually try holding it with your
left foot for the best reception
no danish scientists tested 20 popular
phone models
and found that older iphones and most
tested models
do better when held in the right hand
older samsungs on the contrary
are more productive in the left hand
this is because your body interferes
with the phone signal
newer models work equally well in either
hand though
why does my phone always say it's out of
memory
um i forget no
even if you have almost nothing on your
phone it has pre-installed apps
operating systems and other inhabitants
when you're trying to install an app
there could be enough space to store it
but not enough to process it try
clearing your cache
saving your photos to an sd card and a
factory reset
as a last resort bye-bye